in this video I'd like to show you a fun
and historically important example of
neural network learning of using a
neural network for autonomous driving
that is giving a car to learn to drive
yourself the video that I showed in a
minute was something that I've gotten
from Dean Pomerleau who's a colleague
who works out in Carnegie Mellon
University out on the east coast of the
United States and in part of the video
you see visualizations like this and I
want to tell you what the visualization
looks like before starting the video
down here on the lower left is the view
seen by the car of what's in front of it
and so here you kind of see a road as
maybe are going a bit to the left and
they're going a little bit to the right
and up here on top this first horizontal
bar shows the direction selected by the
human driver and is the location of this
bright white white band that shows the
steering Direction selected by the human
driver where you know here for the Left
corresponds to steering hard left here
corresponds to steering harder right and
so this location which is a little bit
to the left a little bit left of center
means that the human driver at this
point was steering slightly to the left
and this second bar here corresponds to
the steering Direction selected by the
learning algorithm again the location of
this little white van means the neural
network was here selecting a steering
Direction that's like it's the left and
in fact the for the neural network
starts learning initially you see that
the network outputs a gray band like a
green uniform gray band throughout this
region and so the uniform gray fuzz
corresponds to the neural network having
been randomly initialized and initially
having no idea how to drive the car or
initially having no there's no idea what
direction to steer it and there's only
off there is learned for a while that it
will then start to output like a solid
went down in just a small part of the
region
corresponding to choosing a particular
steering direction and that corresponds
to when the neural network becomes more
confident in selecting you know it
wasn't abandoned want to the clear
location brought it in outputting a sort
of light gray fuzz but instead
outputting ale a white band that's more
confidently selecting one steering
Direction Alvin is a system of
artificial neural networks that learns
to steer by watching a person drive
Alvin is designed to control the navlab
to a modified Army Humvee equipped with
sensors computers and actuators for
autonomous navigation experiments the
initial step in configuring Alvin is
training a network just here during
training a person drives the vehicle
while Alvin watches
once every two seconds Alban digitizes
the video invention of the road ahead
and records the person steering
direction
this training image is reduced in
resolution to 30 by 32 pixels and
provided as input to Alvin's three-layer
network using the back propagation
learning algorithm
Alvin is trained to output the same
steering direction as the human driver
for that image
initially the network steering response
is random
after about two minutes of training the
network learns to accurately imitate the
steering reactions of the human driver
this same training procedure is repeated
for other road types after the networks
have been trained the operator pushes
the run switch and heaven begins driving
12 times per second Alvin digitizes an
image and feeds it to its neural
networks
each Network running in parallel
produces a steering direction and a
measure of its confidence in its
response
the steering direction from the most
confident network in this case the
network training for the one lane road
is used to control the vehicle
suddenly an intersection appears ahead
of the vehicle
as the vehicle approaches the
intersection the competence of the
longline Network decreases
as it crosses the intersection and the
two-lane road ahead comes into view the
confidence of the two-lane Network Rises
when it's confidence Rises the to blame
Network is selected to steer safely
guiding the vehicle into its lane on the
two-lane road so that was autonomous
driving using a neural network now of
course there are more recently more
modern attempts to do autonomous driving
there a few projects in the US and
Europe and so on they're giving more
robust driving patrollers than this but
I think is so pretty remarkable and
pretty amazing how a simple neural
network trained to a back propagation
can you know actually learn to drive a
car somewhat well